MuseumVille
========================================================================

Museumville is a game based on the digital resources of Europe's museums,
libraries and archives. As a Museum Curator, your role is to collect
[Europeana](http://www.europeana.eu/portal/aboutus.html) artifacts (Items) and
create Exhibitions with them.

Some people love working with our cultural heritage. Everyone loves to play.
What if we turn work into play?

- Build your own museum
- Hunt for treasures
- Show others
- Keep your exhibitions in order


# Definition of Terms #

<dl>
  <dt>Curator</dt>
  <dd>The role of a Museum player</dd>
  <dt>Exhibit</dt>
  <dd>A Curator has one or more exhibits</dd>
  <dt>Item</dt>
  <dd>The subject artifact of a Europeana record</dd>
  <dt>Visitor</dt>
  <dd>Any visitor to an Exhibit page</dd>
  <dt>Category</dt>
  <dd>A category used to tag Items</dd>
  <dt>Stats</dt>
  <dd>MuseumVille statistics of visitor interactions</dd>
</dl>


# Scoring Points #

The purpose of playing is to create more and more valuable exhibits.


## Popularity ##

Points are gained on unique visits.

Generated Europeana value:

  - stats on popular items and viable/interesting groupings of items


## Origin Popularity ##

Points are gained when visitors leave the exhibit by clicking on a link to the
homepage of the item.

*[Technical solution: exit page or "pingback" from homepage (probably
unfeasible).]*

Generated Europeana value:

  - stats on popularity of an item


## Categorizing Records ##

The free text search can be augmented with and/or complemented by certain
*sets* of categories. These can be gathered from formal ("top down") thesauri
and taxonomies, such as published SKOS data (e.g. DBPedia concepts).
They can also be created bottom-up with ad-hoc tagging processes
(delicious-style).

*[The main usability challenge is to make these fun to add, or effectively
optional. One way is to make them unobtrusive, by integrating them into the
naming, searching and arrangement (or decoration) activities.]*

Suggested scoring system (draft):

Points are gained when curators *link* to these, or *improve* on
categorizations.

  - a small but secure flow of points can be gained by creating links to
    subjects which other curators also use
  - a large score can be awarded if the curator do one of the following:

    - discover an *unused* category, i.e. hitherto not linked to from any
      Europeana Item
    - create a *narrower* category which becomes popular by other curators
      (either when they find things via the concept, or use it themselves)
    - *object* to a certain categorisation and is proven right by something
      like popular vote or elected expert judgement

Categories: places, periods, persons, activities, concepts/themes/tropes...

Generated Europeana value:

  - continuously curated item categorizations (under the hood: linked data in
    the form of dct:subjects for Items, and categories as Concepts expressed in
    SKOS.)

